[{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2024/05/09/math-olympian-in-shadow-of-john-nash-tries-to-solve-blockchain-ai-trust-dilemma/","type":"coindesk","summary":"Hyperbolic, the two-year-old startup focused on decentralized AI computing, said that it is introducing a protocol called “Proof of Sampling,” aimed at addressing challenges with trust in decentralized AI networks","title":"Math Olympian in Shadow of John Nash Tries to Solve Blockchain, AI Trust Dilemma","Detailed":"In mathematics, Jasper Zhang figures to be a sort of Zeus. He says he won gold medals at math olympiads in China and Russia, and it took him just two years to get a Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley. Now he's trying his hand at solving a key problem at the intersection of two of the fastest-growing but most complicated areas – blockchain and AI. Hyperbolic, the two-year-old startup that Zhang leads focused on decentralized AI computing, said Thursday that it is introducing a protocol called “Proof of Sampling (PoSP),” aimed at addressing challenges with trust in decentralized AI networks. Hyperbolic was co-founded in 2022 by Zhang and Yuchen Jin, who holds a Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Washington. The concept for the new protocol was created in conjunction with researchers from Berkeley and Columbia University, according to the team. It combines math, computer science and economics, deploying “advanced sampling methods and game theory to incentivize integrity and minimize computational demands across decentralized networks,” Hyperbolic shared in a press release with CoinDesk. Zhang, 28, said in an interview with CoinDesk that he sees PoSP as the next iteration of verification for decentralized networks. “People in the beginning thought there's only one way to do verification, which is with consensus," Zhang said. "Later on people discover optimistic proving and then ZK proofs.” Now there's PoSP, he said, and it can not only be applied to AI, but also to rollups, a type of layer-2 blockchain, as well as so-called actively validated services (AVSs), which are protocols secured by restaking protocols like EigenLayer. A research paper on the Proof of Sampling Protocol by Zhang and several co-authors was submitted on May 1 to arXiv, an open-access repository hosted by Cornell University for scientific papers that have not yet been peer-reviewed. According to the paper, the design relies on a "pure strategy Nash Equilibrium." That refers to a game theory concept attributed to the Princeton University-educated mathematician John Nash, who was the subject of the 2001 Oscar-winning film A Beautiful Mind, directed by Ron Howard and starring Russell Crowe. As part of the release, Hyperbolic is introducing “spML,” an implementation of PoSP built specifically for AI verification. "SpML leverages the foundational principles of PoSP to create a verification mechanism that is not only faster and more secure but also economically feasible," Zhang said in the press release. Now they just have to prove it works in practice.","CreationDate":"May 10, 2024","author":"Margaux Nijkerk"},{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/10/27/google-introduces-cloud-based-blockchain-node-service-for-ethereum/","type":"coindesk","summary":"The move highlights the growing attention that technology giants are paying to blockchain, crypto and Web3 projects.","title":"Google Introduces Cloud-Based Blockchain Node Service for Ethereum","Detailed":"Tech giant Google said Thursday it will be launching a cloud-based node engine for Ethereum projects. The company said its Google Cloud Blockchain Node Engine will be a “fully managed node-hosting service that can minimize the need for node operations,” meaning that Google will be responsible for monitoring node activity and restarting them during outages. A node is a type of computer that runs a blockchain’s software to validate and store the history of transactions on a blockchain’s network. At the time of launch, Google will be supporting only Ethereum nodes. Google’s announcement signifies the growing attention that technology giants are giving toward blockchain, crypto and Web3 projects. “Blockchain is changing the way the world stores and moves its information,” Google said in its announcement. Earlier this month, Google formed a partnership with crypto exchange Coinbase to provide crypto payments for its cloud services, and in September, Google Cloud and BNB Chain announced a partnership to support the growth of early-stage Web3 startups. In addition, Google announced in January that it was building a Digital Assets Team for Google Cloud, showing its commitment to building Web3 projects.","CreationDate":"Oct 28, 2022","author":"Margaux Nijkerk"},{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/11/21/mobile-focused-blockchain-celo-partners-with-ethereum-software-firm-consensys/","type":"coindesk","summary":"The partnership will allow for Celo to integrate with ConsenSys’ Infura infrastructure.","title":"Mobile-Focused Blockchain Celo Partners With Ethereum Software Firm ConsenSys","Detailed":"Mobile-first blockchain Celo will be working with ConsenSys, an Ethereum software firm that helped engineer the Merge. The agreement will allow Celo to make use of ConsenSys’ Infura infrastructure. Celo developers will be able to build with Infura, which will help make the blockchain more scalable. Developers will also be able to deploy Ethereum-based decentralized applications (dapps) built with Truffle. Truffle is a development environment where Ethereum smart contracts can be tested. “Developers can use Infura’s trusted and complementary tooling to seamlessly communicate with the Celo blockchain for rapid deployment and scaling” said Xochitl Cazador, Celo's head of ecosystem growth. The integration will also allow for developers to transact between Celo and other DeFi platforms and dapps. In addition, the partnership is intended to kick off Celo’s compatibility with MetaMask, a popular Ethereum-based wallet. Celo will also join the Ethereum Climate Platform that ConsenSys launched last week. Last year, ConsenSys announced that over 350,000 builders were using the Infura Infrastructure. In 2021, Polygon, an Ethereum scaling project, also started supporting Infura tooling. Celo in January introduced cREAL, a stablecoin pegged to Brazil's local currency, the real. “This partnership supports the Celo ecosystem’s mission by providing reliable, easy-to-use tooling for developers to build and scale their dapps on the Celo blockchain,” Cazador told CoinDesk. “We are one step closer to mainstream adoption of web3 and realizing its full potential to transform lives by regenerating global ecologies and empowering local economies.”","CreationDate":"Nov 21, 2022","author":"Margaux Nijkerk"},{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2024/05/06/ethereum-developers-target-ease-of-crypto-wallets-with-eip-3074/","type":"coindesk","summary":"EIP-3074 has drawn both support and concern from the Ethereum community, a code change that is supposed to improve the user experience with wallets on the blockchain.","title":"Ethereum Developers Target Ease of Crypto Wallets With 'EIP-3074'","Detailed":"As blockchain teams strive for the holy grail of mainstream adoption, making crypto wallets easier to use is suddenly at the top of the agenda. Ethereum developers have been moving along with their discussions and inclusions of certain Ethereum Improvement Proposals (EIPs) for the blockchain’s next big hard fork, Pectra. One of the proposals that has drawn both support and concern from the Ethereum community is EIP-3074, a code change that is supposed to improve the user experience with wallets on the blockchain. Ethereum developers have tackled issues in the past that would make the user experience with wallets easier, and have deployed features that unlocked newer capabilities. But now, developers are pushing to make the experience even easier, and enshrined in the blockchain. This new change is supposed to allow a specific type of wallet, externally owned accounts (EOAs), to be more programmable, by allowing smart contracts to authorize them. Paradigm Chief Technology Officer Georgios Konstatonopolous said on X that EIP-3074 “is a big deal. Wallet UX will 10x.” Currently on Ethereum, there are two types of wallet accounts: EOAs, which are the most popular, like MetaMask and Coinbase wallet, and smart contract wallets, like Argent and Safe. Users of EOA accounts are given a pair of keys – a public one and private one – while smart contract accounts are wallets that are controlled by code. The problem with EOAs comes down to human error; if you lose a private key to an EOA account, there is no help desk or key recovery process that can help you regain access to your funds. Previous proposals, like ERC-4337, have aimed to make EOAs easier to use, a concept known as account abstraction (AA), which allows users to recover their crypto with smart contract features. EIP-3074 is another step in this type of innovation, delegating transaction capabilities to smart contracts. A key component of the proposal is to allow users to batch transactions together and have them sign off on it once. Other features include having third parties sponsor users' transaction fees, so decentralized applications (dapps) can for instance cover the gas costs for their users. The proposal, created as far back as October 2020, also allows for users to sign transactions that were submitted by a different party – for example, signing transactions from a different interface, or signing them offline. The authors are Sam Wilson, Ansgar Dietrichs, Matt Garnett and Micah Zoltu, according to the document. The key difference between EIP-3074 and ERC-4337 is that “the former focuses on getting all the benefits of execution abstraction, and the latter focuses on getting all the benefits of account abstraction on all EVM chains but in a non-native way that is less efficient,” Ethereum Foundation developer Yoav Weiss writes. “Both are steps to get some of the benefits of full native account abstraction.” Community pushback. While many in the community showed their support for the proposal, others have cautioned moving forward with this over security concerns with the batched transactions feature. Lukas Schor, the co-founder at Safe that has advocated for ERC-4337 and for Ethereum wallets to implement full account abstraction, voiced concerns that while this proposal does move in the right direction, he fears the EIP lacks “any clear pathway to full AA and has a net-negative impact on AA adoption.” The co-founder of Argent wallet, Itamar Lesuisse, also posted on X that EIP-3074 might be a serious security concern, writing that it allows “a scammer to drain your entire wallet with a single off-chain signature. I expect this will be a major use case.” Mudit Gupta, chief information security officer at Polygon Labs, also had security concerns, calling for wallets to “ban EIP-3074 MAGIC signatures on a per wallet basis.”. “For security reasons, I do not want to expose my cold wallets to AA batching,” Gupta added. ","CreationDate":"May 7, 2024","author":"Margaux Nijkerk"},{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2024/04/29/eigenlayer-after-touching-off-restaking-frenzy-plans-own-eigen-token/","type":"coindesk","summary":"Sreeram Kannan, leader of the project, had previously refused to confirm any plans for an EIGEN token. That hadn't stopped crypto traders from betting heavily on the likelihood; they poured in more than $15 billion of deposits, aiming to collect incentives for early users.","title":"EigenLayer, After Touching Off Restaking Frenzy, Plans Own EIGEN token","Detailed":"EigenLayer, the restaking protocol that has racked up $15.7 billion in deposits, released a whitepaper Monday confirming plans for an EIGEN token, in what's likely to be one of the year's most highly anticipated reward giveaways for users of the Ethereum blockchain ecosystem. According to a blog post written by the Eigen Foundation, the non-profit supporting the protocol, there will be a total supply of about 1.67 billion EIGEN tokens, and 45% of those will go toward the EigenLayer community. The 45% is divided into three subgroups, with stakedrops, future community initiatives and ecosystem development each receiving buckets of 15%. "The total supply of EIGEN at launch is 1,673,646,668.28466 tokens," the foundation revealed. "This number is the result of encoding the phrase 'Open Innovation' onto a classic telephone keypad." Crypto traders have been speculating for many months that EigenLayer would come out with its own token, and they had piled deposits into the protocol even before it went live a few weeks ago, on bets that they would receive rewards for early users. EigenLayer is at the core of a new trend known as "restaking," where users’ ether (ETH) tokens that are deposited or "staked" as security on the Ethereum blockchain can be repurposed to secure additional networks or protocols. The project is led by Sreeram Kannan, who founded it in 2021 when he was an associate professor of electrical and computer engineering at the University of Washington. EigenLayer went live earlier this month, but it is has not yet activated most of the core features that make the project notable – including its reward system and mission-critical "slashing" mechanism. In Monday's post, Eigen Foundation wrote that the first "season" of the "stakedrop," as the team described the planned token release, some 5% of the token supply will be distributed to users based on their staking activities on March 15, at Ethereum block No. 19437000. The claim for these EIGEN tokens opens on May 10, and will close after 120 days. According to the foundation, investors will be allocated 29.5% of the token supply, and 25.5% will go towards early contributors. Both groups will have a three-year lock period, “with a full lock in year one, followed by a linear unlock of 4% of their total allocation each month over the next two years.” In addition, at the launch of the EIGEN token, users will be able to secure EigenDA, Eigenlayer’s Actively Validated Service (AVS) for data availability, with their EIGEN tokens. Other AVSs are expected to follow, the foundation wrote. That restaked ETH is used collectively to secure these auxiliary AVS networks on EigenLayer. As part of the EIGEN drop, the protocol is bringing in a new technological design known as "intersubjective forking,” a feature meant to support “intersubjective faults.” “Intersubjective faults are instances of misbehavior that cannot be objectively identified on-chain, yet any two reasonable observers would agree that a penalty is deserved,” according to the blog post. The system will empower the AVSs to make a "much wider range of credible commitments than is possible today, significantly expanding the possibilities of what can be built on EigenLayer," the foundation said. "Use cases include transaction ordering, databases, prediction markets, storage services, oracles, artificial intelligence, and more."","CreationDate":"Apr 30, 2024","author":"Margaux Nijkerk"},{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2024/02/14/layer-2-chain-starknets-much-awaited-strk-token-airdrop-coming-next-week/","type":"coindesk","summary":"The airdrop will happen on Feb. 20, and eligible users have until June 20 to claim their tokens","title":"Starknet Blockchain Plans Much-Awaited Airdrop of New STRK Tokens Next Week","Detailed":"Starknet Foundation announced on Wednesday that STRK, the native token for the Ethereum layer-2 blockchain Starknet, will be airdropped on Feb. 20, with roughly 1.3 million wallets eligible to receive it. According to the foundation, there are several types of users that qualify for the 728 million token airdrop – or as the foundation terms the giveaways, “provisions” – and they have until June 20 to claim the tokens. Starknet is a layer-2 blockchain that makes use of zero-knowledge cryptography. The long awaited arrival of the STRK token will be used to fuel “community participation and project governance,” Starknet Foundation said in a press release seen by CoinDesk. "Provisions celebrates our community's hard work in showing how we can and should scale Ethereum for mass adoption,” Diego Olivia, CEO of Starknet Foundation, said in the press release. The qualifications for the STRK airdrop are mainly divided into three groups: Starknet users, developers and contributors to the ecosystem; Ethereum builders and stakers, and non-Web3 open-source developers. The scope of those who qualify are unusual for an airdrop given that groups outside of the immediate Starknet ecosystem are eligible, with Ethereum solo-stakers and liquid staking token users falling in these categories. The foundation attributes their eligibility to the fact that Starknet is secured by Ethereum. Furthermore, non-blockchain open-source developers are eligible for STRK tokens, making it the first airdrop that non-Web3 users can qualify for, according to an infographic. The foundation added that its aim with this is “to set a new precedent in inclusivity.” The foundation also mentioned that for those who didn't qualify for this airdrop, “there will be further provisions in the future,” meaning there will be more airdrops. “We see how much attention this is bringing to Starknet and we’re flattered,” Eli Ben-Sasson, who sits on the board of the Starknet Foundation and is the CEO of StarkWare, the primary developer firm behind Starknet, said in the press release.","CreationDate":"Feb 14, 2024","author":"Margaux Nijkerk"},{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2023/09/27/the-protocol-google-pushes-deeper-into-blockchain/","type":"coindesk","summary":"Google's cloud-computing division is increasingly involved in blockchain, with plans to add 11 networks including Polygon, Optimism, and Polkadot to its 'BigQuery' program for public datasets.","title":"The Protocol: Google Pushes Deeper into Blockchain","Detailed":"Alert readers of The Protocol will remember our smart feature last month on the concept of “restaking” on Ethereum – essentially a way of sharing the blockchain’s security among other protocols and networks. For today’s issue, our Margaux Nijkerk sat down for an interview with Sreeram Kannan, the University of Washington computing professor who now serves as founder of EigenLayer, the most well-known among restaking pioneers. (Spoiler alert: He acknowledges the systemic risks flagged by Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin.) Network news. GOOGLE BLOCKCHAIN: In a sign that big tech companies are nosing into blockchain, Google’s cloud-computing division is increasingly popping up in crypto news headlines, and top executives focused on Web3 are making the rounds with media. Last week, Google Cloud announced it would add 11 networks including Polygon, Optimism and Polkadot to its ‘BigQuery’ program for public datasets, originally set up for Bitcoin in 2018 and later expanded to additional chains including Ethereum, Litecoin and Dogecoin. “Over the past 18 months we’ve been investing in this space, we’ve continued to hire, we’ve continued to grow not only our business development and our go-to-market teams but also our product and engineering capabilities,” James Tromans, Google Cloud’s global head of Web3, told CoinDesk TV in an interview last week. “We’re not just fly-by-night.” On Sept. 14, Orderly Network, a decentralized exchange designed for white-labeling, posted on X that it would “exclusively develop off-chain components of DeFi infrastructure” on Google Cloud, and that it would be “actively involved in alpha testing Google’s Web3 innovations.” Over the past couple years, Google has announced business initiatives with BNB Chain, Celo, Polygon, Celo, Axie Infinity, LayerZero Labs, Solana and Tezos. It bears reminding readers that Google’s push to develop quantum computing has been posited as an existential threat to the blockchain industry, since theoretically such ultra-fast machines might be able to crack the cryptography underpinning digital-asset networks. ETHEREUM’S BAD RAP: How has the Ethereum blockchain performed since April’s Shapella upgrade, which allowed staking withdrawals for the first time? It might depend on whom you ask, and how you ask the question. In a widely-circulated report, JPMorgan analysts noted that “the increase in network activity has been rather disappointing.” According to the bank’s calculations, the daily transaction count over the network has fallen by 12%, and daily active addresses are down 20%. The analysts acknowledged the steep drop in Ethereum’s energy consumption as a result of the “Merge” shift to a proof-of-stake network a year ago, as well as the overall reduction in issuance of new ETH – a bullish factor. But Akash Mahendra, director of Haven1 Foundation, which supports the Haven1 network, notes that the acute focus on Ethereum alone might take too myopic a view – since it might ignore the rapid growth of layer-2 networks that work atop Ethereum and have absorbed many of the transactions that might otherwise take place on the layer-1 blockchain. The build-out “yielded substantial improvements in scalability and alleviated congestion on the mainnet,” Mahendra said in emailed comments. Even so, transaction activity on Ethereum has been so anemic lately that the supply curve has recently reverted to being inflationary. A fresh source of criticism is that Ethereum developers appear to have fallen behind in their push toward the next big upgrade, known as Dencun. Galaxy’s Christine Kim wrote last week that the developers are now cautioning that they are unlikely to activate Dencun this year if they can’t get the upgrade launched on a test network before Devconnect, an Ethereum-focused conference set for mid-November in Istanbul. YOU SNOOZE, YOU LOSE: Arbitrum Foundation, which maintains the development of the Arbitrum blockchain, said Sunday it had transferred 69 million (worth $59 million) in unclaimed ARB tokens to the network’s treasury, after the claim period ended. BUT ARE YOU WINNING? The median pay globally among 570 blockchain engineers surveyed was $120,000, with those in North America getting $193,000, up 1.5% versus the prior year, according to a new Pantera study. (The study also found that 97% of crypto-industry employees take their salaries in fiat currencies, and that 88% of roles are remote.) ALSO: Mixin Network has confirmed a report from SlowMist, a blockchain security consultancy, that it was hacked for nearly $200 million on Sept. 23. Mixin said there was an attack on the database of its cloud service provider; snarky posters on X (Twitter) noted that the database was under centralized control, creating a single point of failure. Curve founder Michael Egorov deposits $35M in CRV tokens to settle debt on Aave. The Bitcoin blockchain is going through another round of congestion due to Ordinals inscriptions. Pudgy Penguins NFTs have inspired a toy collection at Walmart. Crypto influencer Ben Armstrong, founder of Bitboy crypto channel, was arrested while live-streaming on X; the BEN token price plunged. Bitcoin miner Marathon reportedly mined an invalid block due to a “transaction ordering issue:” Protocol Village. Highlighting blockchain tech upgrades and developments. 1. Blocknative to suspend MEV-Boost Relay as CEO Matt Cutler says the economics failed to "materialize." 2. Push Protocol, the Web3 communication network formerly known as EPNS, which includes a dedicated channel for distributing CoinDesk news directly to users who opt in through their wallet addresses, has launched its own “Push Snap” on MetaMask. “You can now seamlessly receive notifications powered by Push Protocol directly in your wallet, ensuring you never miss out on important updates from the channels that you subscribe to,” according to the description on the MetaMask Snaps website. 3. Circle and Stellar announced that the euro-linked stablecoin EURC, available on the Ethereum and Avalanche blockchains, will be going live on the Stellar Network. 4. Immunefi, a bug bounty and security services platform for Web3, announced the launch of its on-chain Vaults System, designed to increase transparency and trust between projects and security researchers by enabling projects to deposit assets into their own sovereign vault to pay out bug bounty rewards. 5. Arbitrum users can now trade Bitcoin mining power with each other, using the hashpower marketplace Lumerin. Money Center. Fundraisings: AnchorWatch, an insurer covering commercial entities holding bitcoin (BTC), has raised $3 million in funding led by Ten31 with participation from Axiom BTC, Timechain, Bitcoin Opportunity Fund, UTXO Management (the asset management arm of Bitcoin Magazine and host of the Bitcoin Conference) and others, according to a press release sent by Ten31. Fhenix, the first confidential blockchain powered by fully homomorphic encryption (FHE), announced a $7M seed round led by Multicoin Capital and Collider Ventures, with participation from Node Capital, Bankless, HackVC, TaneLabs and Metaplanet. Deals and grants: Alchemy, the web3 infrastructure platform, announced it has acquired Satsuma, one of Web3’s top subgraph-indexing platforms. Protocol Labs, a developer focused on Filecoin, and Consensys, the Ethereum developer, announced a partnership to support blockchain startups via the Consensys Scale program. Data and tokens: Alchemy, the web3 infrastructure platform, announced it has acquired Satsuma, one of Web3’s top subgraph-indexing platforms.Protocol Labs, a developer focused on Filecoin, and Consensys, the Ethereum developer, announced a partnership to support blockchain startups via the Consensys Scale program. Counterfeit Aptos token deposited on Upbit leads to APT withdrawals being temporarily suspended. The price of ether (ETH) is flashing a bullish ‘DeMark” signal, technical analysis suggests, according to Fairlead Strategies' Katie Stockton. Optimism’s OP token slumps ahead of $30M unlock. Shiba Inu ecosystem token BONE jumps as its deployer contract gets “renounced” – crypto developer-speak for when a “contract's creator will no longer have control over it – giving investors a sense of security as the contract can no longer be changed or updated, and is hence saved from possible manipulation by the contract creator.” Is Crypto Winter Starting to Thaw? Blockchain projects and startups have netted more than $100 million of funding in each of the past three weeks, according to FundStrat. “A trend has developed of projects beginning to emerge from stealth development and announcing their product updates or new fundraises,” according to the analysis firm. “Projects may be seeing light at the end of the tunnel of this bear market and think it is the right time to emerge.” ","CreationDate":"Sep 28, 2023","author":"Margaux Nijkerk"},{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2023/09/17/ethereums-holesky-testnet-fails-to-launch-in-rare-tech-misstep-for-the-blockchain/","type":"coindesk","summary":"Developers of the Ethereum blockchain say there was a misconfiguration in the genesis files of the test network, and now they plan to try again in about two weeks.","title":"Ethereum’s Holesky Testnet Fails to Launch, in Rare Tech Misstep for the Blockchain","Detailed":"Ethereum developers failed to get their new test network, Holesky, started on Friday, marring a technological milestone that was supposed to serve as a celebration of the first anniversary of last year’s historic “Merge” upgrade. While some validators were able to manually start the test network, there was a misconfiguration in one of the genesis files of the network, according to Ethereum core developers. As a result, Ethereum core developers decided to postpone the launch for about two weeks, giving them time to regroup. The episode represents a rare gaffe for Ethereum, which over the past year has managed to smoothly implement key upgrades, including the “Merge” a year ago and “Shapella” in April, all the while incorporating rapid growth in its fast-expanding ecosystem of secondary networks known as layer-2 blockchains. Ethereum is the second-largest blockchain after Bitcoin, but it's closely watched because it's the largest among those that can support smart contracts, which are strings of programming that can be embedded into the network to run functions and applications, similar to a computer. Developers can still use Goerli. Test networks, or testnets, are clones of a blockchain, used to simulate transactions and test applications before they are deployed on a mainnet blockchain. Ethereum developers created the Holesky testnet to replace one of the blockchain’s current testnets, Goerli. The Goerli testnet is still live, so developers can still test their applications on that network. Developers plan to sunset Goerli in early 2024. Holesky is supposed to ease some scaling issues for Ethereum, as developers are intended to allow for twice as many validators to join the network compared to mainnet. “It’s possible to resurrect the network with a fix, but we decided it’s probably cleaner to start fresh considering it’ll be a new network that’ll live for years,” said Parithosh Jayanthi, a devops engineer at the Ethereum Foundation. Holesky is also supposed to be critical for Ethereum’s next hard fork, Dencun, in which proto-danksharding, a technical feature aimed at scaling the blockchain, is supposed to go live. Jayanthi told CoinDesk that the set back in Holesky’s launch is not supposed to affect the timing of Dencun. “This won’t affect Dencun at all,” he said. Friday’s launch was supposed to mark the first anniversary of the "Merge," Ethereum’s historic event where it became a "proof-of-stake" blockchain and swapped out its old, energy-intensive "proof-of-work" model.","CreationDate":"Sep 18, 2023","author":"Margaux Nijkerk"},{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2023/09/12/fabian-vogestellers-lukso-blockchain-adds-universal-profiles-in-push-for-fancy-ethereum/","type":"coindesk","summary":"The Universal Profiles are a feature, currently in beta, designed to give users a holistic “on-chain identity” that comes with a recoverable crypto account as well as a profile for interacting with decentralized applications.","title":"Fabian Vogesteller’s Lukso Blockchain Adds ‘Universal Profiles,’ in Push for ‘Fancy’ Ethereum","Detailed":"Lukso, a layer 1 blockchain for creative types co-founded by blockchain veterans Fabian Vogelsteller and Marjorie Hernandez, is releasing the beta version of “Universal Profiles” – a feature designed to give users a holistic “on-chain identity” that comes with a recoverable crypto wallet as well as a profile for interacting with social media applications. The Universal Profiles can be used on the blockchain for all sorts of applications (NFTs, decentralized social media, payments), therefore integrating the activity of users under one account that is more than just a wallet address. Currently, the most common type of blockchain accounts, known as Externally Owned Accounts (EOA), have limited recovery options; if a user loses their private key, their crypto holdings are lost forever. EOA accounts also can’t attach information that could be read by other smart contracts, and transaction fees cannot be paid by other parties as well on an EOA, meaning the user is in charge of providing fees for gas. Lukso’s Universal Profiles comes with recovery options – employing a smart contract account that can be restored via procedure, or their key manager, if the keys are lost. In addition, the Universal Profile can read any piece of information, like a photo or a video, which can then be attached to their profile and can be read by other decentralized applications or “dapps” on the blockchain. The team says that the aim of the project is to give brands an opportunity to bring their identity to the blockchain, a means of making web3 more accessible to the masses. “We are trying to onboard the 99% of the users that haven't used blockchain yet,” Fabian Volgesteller, co-founder of Lukso and an Ethereum veteran, said in an interview. “Because everybody that's currently using blockchain is a niche that has learned to hop through hoops of difficult steps.” With Universal Profiles, users won’t have to pay for gas – fees for transactions – on the blockchain. The Foundation for the New Creative Economies, the body behind Lukso, is allocating a certain amount of LYX for gas usage for users, and setting up a marketplace for relay providers so that users can subscribe and choose which relay to use to pay for their gas (sort of like choosing a mobile plan.) “We want to have a lot of competing transaction relay services that have their own business model, and that compete for users because then we can pull ourselves out of the picture,” Vogelsteller told CoinDesk. Lukso’s mainnet went live in May. Since then, nearly 57,000 validators are running the network. Vogelsteller boldly claims that eventually, “Lukso will be bigger than Ethereum,” but for now he positions it as just an improved version with more user-friendly features. “It’s Ethereum, just fancy, and it's Ethereum in its essence,” he said. “But what Ethereum is missing is the easy-in, the usability, the normie kind of capacity.”","CreationDate":"Sep 12, 2023","author":"Margaux Nijkerk"},{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2023/04/05/inventor-of-ethereums-erc-20-token-standard-plans-new-blockchain-lukso-for-creative-types/","type":"coindesk","summary":"Fabian Vogelsteller is launching his new project, a layer 1 blockchain “LUKSO,” and validators will be able to join the network through the Genesis Validator Smart Contract Deposit.","title":"Inventor of Ethereum’s ERC-20 Token Standard Plans New Blockchain ‘LUKSO’ for Creative Types","Detailed":"Fabian Vogelsteller, an Ethereum veteran who helped shape the ecosystem in the early days, is taking on a new venture – a blockchain to succeed where he says others have failed, in catering to creative, fashion-oriented and art-world types. One of the 39-year-old, self-taught German programmer’s most significant contributions to Ethereum was the invention of ERC-20, the blueprint for creating tokens that are compatible with the blockchain. That innovation led to the infamous initial coin offering boom of 2017-2018. Several of the biggest tokens by market capitalization are based on the standard, including Uniswap’s UNI, Shiba Inu’s SHIB and Arbitrum’s new ARB. Vogelsteller is now turning his attention to a new project, LUKSO, a soon-to-be-launched layer 1 blockchain that he says is designed for the “creative economy.” It would compete with Ethereum itself, by far the dominant smart-contracts blockchain with a market capitalization of $217 billion. The explosion in NFTs for everything from collectibles to art and music, along with a plethora of imagined metaverses, is a good reflection of the potential for creative-type applications on the blockchain, according to Vogelsteller. But he says the systems are nowhere near maturity and not easy enough to use. “One of the advantages for starting a new network was thinking about how we can improve the basic direction of the blockchain,” Vogelsteller told CoinDesk. LUKSO will have a window of opportunity for validators to join the network. There will be a Genesis Validator Deposit Smart Contract on the Ethereum blockchain, which will go live in a few weeks. Just like Ethereum was born out of Bitcoin, LUKSO will be born out of Ethereum, Vogelsteller told CoinDesk: “We use Ethereum as an on-ramp in a way, like Ethereum used the Bitcoin network.” On LUKSO, the Genesis Validator Deposit Smart Contract will allow users to deposit LYXe, an ERC-20 token that went live in a reversible ICO round in June 2020, to become a genesis validator. (Once the mainnet goes live, LYXe will be converted to LYX, the native token for LUKSO.) Each validator on the LUKSO blockchain needs to lock up 32 LYXe in order to participate in the block validation process – similar to the 32 ETH that’s required to be “staked” on Ethereum to participate as a validator. Self-taught coder: According to Vogelsteller, what’s stopping Ethereum from becoming adopted on a mass scale is that the applications aren't making the user experience easy. It’s hard for the average person to understand what address belongs to which wallet, and it takes effort to follow the movement of transactions on the chain. To solve this, LUKSO will introduce a comprehensive all-in-one profile that brings on-chain activity under a single entity, known as a “universal profile.” Vogelsteller was born in the tiny German town of Unterwirbach in Bavaria where he says he never really fit in. He moved to another small city in southwest Germany where he finished his studies at Schmalkalden. He studied media design at the Bauhaus University in Weimar. “I never studied computer science or anything technical. Everything I know I learned by myself coding websites since I was 14,” Vogelsteller said. In 2013, Vogelsteller first learned about blockchains. He also happened to meet the original Ethereum team a day before their pre-sale. Six months later, Vogesteller started working for the Ethereum Foundation in Berlin, where he built the first Web3 browser, the first Ethereum wallet and other developer tools. During his time at the Ethereum Foundation, Vogelsteller, together with Vitalik Buterin, co-founder of the Ethereum blockchain, pioneered ERC-20, which created a set of rules that tokens on Ethereum blockchain have to adhere to, making it easier for developers to know how any new ERC-20 token will behave. Buterin had originally proposed an initial token standard in 2015, but Vogelsteller looked at the proposal, changed a few things and proposed ERC-20 to the Ethereum community to initiate a conversation. It was adopted in September 2017 and remains the de facto standard for fungible tokens on Ethereum. Vogelsteller also first introduced the concept of a blockchain-based identity on Ethereum in 2017, known as ERC-725. It gave protocols the ability to create decentralized identity standards on Ethereum. While the Ethereum standard didn't take off like ERC-20 did, projects like Origin Protocol implemented the standard. Leaving Ethereum: By 2018, Vogelsteller left the Ethereum Foundation to focus on LUKSO and improve on standards that he proposed during his time working on the Ethereum blockchain. Now, Vogelsteller has drawn inspiration from the decentralized blockchain identity standard he created for Ethereum, but has turned that into a series of LUKSO Standard Proposals, or LSPs, and the blockchain account at the heart of the ecosystem known as LSP0. LSP0, which turns ERC-725 into a smart contract-based profile, tackles the functionality and makes profiles more user friendly on the blockchain. It combines a crypto type wallet, similar to an Ethereum account, with smart-contract storage. In addition to having a regular crypto account attached to these profiles, users can link to any public information they want, like their Twitter account or non-fungible tokens. On LUKSO, users, organizations and teams can create any profile they wish to identify themselves as in Web3; the profile also would act as their blockchain account, making the user experience more seamless. ‘Way more’ than a wallet. On Ethereum, if you hold a regular account, known as an "externally owned account," it’s impossible to add information like the user’s name, age or other information to the public key address, meaning aspects of identity cannot be integrated into the protocol layer. And while crypto users often enjoy using aliases or being anonymous, having easy ways to identify what a user presents themselves online with their on-chain activity is missing. Vogelsteller believes that universal profiles solve this. “It can be a wallet, but it's way more than that,” Vogelsteller told CoinDesk. “It is a whole profile. It has a name. It has a picture. It can be managed by multiple devices, by multiple keys, with different levels of permission.” The universal profiles also get "key managers," which can let users add multiple keys to their on-chain account that are assigned or execute different actions. The key manager checks which key can do what on the universal profile and can restrict specific activities of certain devices. In addition, having these multiple keys enables some kind of backup system in the event that a user loses access to a key. There could be benefits for decentralized autonomous organizations, online stores, services or anti-money-laundering and know-your-customer processes required by authorities; organizations are able to store, use and cross-check the public information of a universal profile. The idea of LUKSO is to become a whole ecosystem for creatives. Vogelsteller said LUKSO is “building a whole toolset and ecosystem and marketplace around NFTs using universal profile on the base,” making it easier to identify creatives and their profiles, and their works on the blockchain. While the hype these days seems to be around “layer 2” scaling tools for Ethereum, Vogesteller argues that LUKSO needed to be its own network. New token standards: He argues that the network capacity of these popular layer 2s and Ethereum is full. “Mainnet is full, and it's expensive," he said. LUKSO isn't the first blockchain to work on identity issues. Ethereum scaling project Polygon recently came out with Polygon ID, which uses zero-knowledge technology that allows users to verify their identities without revealing sensitive information. Other protocols like Ethereum Name Service exist to help connect domain names to users’ wallet addresses, making crypto addresses more identifiable. “When you put the profile on the blockchain, everything you do now with your profile is literally happening on the blockchain. So there's a lot more things you can do now,” Vogelsteller said.","CreationDate":"Apr 6, 2023","author":"Margaux Nijkerk"},{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2024/01/31/the-protocol-bitcoin-nft-debacle-vitaliks-30th-farcaster-frames-private-mempools/","type":"coindesk","summary":"In this week's issue of The Protocol newsletter, our Sam Kessler writes about the "private mempools" that Ethereum users are increasingly relying on to avoid front-running MEV bots. PLUS: Margaux Nijkerk explores the growing use of "councils" to oversee adolescent networks.","title":"The Protocol: Bitcoin NFT Debacle, Vitalik's 30th, Farcaster Frames, 'Private Mempools'","Detailed":"Ok, sure, humans invented blockchains. But why do they have to mess it all up? In this week's issue of The Protocol newsletter, we've got lots of humans doing things in blockchain – some quite impressive, not all so successful. There was the messy-and-ultimately-suspended sale by Taproot Wizards of its inaugural "NFTs-on-Bitcoin" collection "Quantum Cats," and Wednesday brought news of a reported hack at Ripple. Our Sam Kessler writes about the "private mempools" that Ethereum users are relying on to keep transactions from getting picked off by front-running "MEV" bots, and Margaux Nijkerk reports on the growing use of "councils" – call them blockchain boards – that projects are creating to provide adult supervision over still-quite-adolescent networks.","CreationDate":"Feb 1, 2024","author":"Margaux Nijkerk"}]