{"link":"https://www.frontiersin.org/research-topics/60051/blockchain-and-tokenomics-for-sustainable-development","type":"research-topics","title":"Blockchain and Tokenomics for Sustainable Development","Detailed":"Total Downloads  Total Views and Downloads Views The purpose of innovation is to deliver a better world to future generations. Over the last decade, the emergence of blockchain technology as a key enabler in unlocking a new phase of the Internet evolution has attracted significant interest from both the academic and the industrial world. As the blockchain ecosystem matures, it is important to clarify how the new breed of global infrastructures created may be turned into value for society. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), endorsed by the UN in 2015, offer a comprehensive framework for addressing a wide range of pressing global issues including poverty, inequality, climate change, and sustainable economic growth. The purpose of this request for scientific contributions is to investigate and evaluate how blockchain technology may be leveraged to accelerate the achievement of SDGs. The overarching aim of this special issue is to shed light on how blockchain may contribute to the attainment of a triple-sustainability paradigm within the global economy. It does so by encouraging the exploration of new business and governance models, as well as incentive systems aimed at better allocation, redistribution, and preservation of both financial and natural resources. Additionally, given the global nature of the most pressing policy challenges, there is a need to increase the level of international collaboration and coordination. In this respect, blockchain - through transparency and immutability - can play a key role in building a layer of trust, which represents a prerequisite for any collaboration effort at both the institutional and individual levels. This Research Topic is therefore specifically interested in developing and strengthening original research on the emerging concept of blockchain towards the development of sustainable solutions that are also connected with the current SDGs. It seeks interdisciplinary contributions exploring the potential of blockchain in addressing various environmental, social, and economic challenges outlined in the SDGs and foster discussions on the sustainable applications and implications of blockchain technology in achieving these global objectives. We invite researchers, academics, industry professionals, and policy makers to submit their abstracts and original research papers based on theoretical and/or empirical research applying rigorous qualitative (i.e. case studies, review articles) and/or quantitative methods (i.e. performance assessment). Published articles are expected to be approximately 8,000 words in length. Topics covered by the Research Topic may include, but are not limited to: • Token-based incentive systems including carbon emissions tracking and offsetting for the promotion of climate-neutral behaviors (climate change adaptation and mitigation) (SDG 13: Climate Action) • Transparency in food origin and production processes leveraging blockchain and data space technology (SDG2: Zero Hunger) • Token-enabled business models for regenerative finance (SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth) • Token-based systems for biodiversity management and protection (SDG 15: Life on Land) • Blockchain-based business and governance models for philanthropy (SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals) • Blockchain for transparent and accountable governance in sustainability initiatives including cross-border I-Voting and privacy, security, and ethical considerations (SDG 16: Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions) • Sustainable Transportation, DPP and blockchain technology (SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities) • Decentralized energy systems and renewable energy trading using blockchain (SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy) • Blockchain applications in waste management and circular economy (SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production) including biodiversity conservation and ecosystem management (SDG 15: Life on Land) • Blockchain-enabled solutions for sustainable supply chain management (SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production) • Sustainable agriculture and food transparency and traceability using blockchain (SDG 2: Zero Hunger) including consumer goods (SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production) • Social impact of blockchain technology in underserved communities (SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities) Keywords: Token-based incentive systems, Tokenomics, Blockchain governance models, Decentralized systems, Sustainability aspects of BCT, Social impact of BCT Important Note: All contributions to this Research Topic must be within the scope of the section and journal to which they are submitted, as defined in their mission statements. Frontiers reserves the right to guide an out-of-scope manuscript to a more suitable section or journal at any stage of peer review. Keywords: Token-based incentive systems, Tokenomics, Blockchain governance models, Decentralized systems, Sustainability aspects of BCT, Social impact of BCT Important Note: All contributions to this Research Topic must be within the scope of the section and journal to which they are submitted, as defined in their mission statements. Frontiers reserves the right to guide an out-of-scope manuscript to a more suitable section or journal at any stage of peer review. Sort by:  No records found total views article views downloads topic views With their unique mixes of varied contributions from Original Research to Review Articles, Research Topics unify the most influential researchers, the latest key findings and historical advances in a hot research area! Find out more on how to host your own Frontiers Research Topic or contribute to one as an author.","CreationDate":"Manuscript Submission Deadline 31 March 2024 Manuscript Extension Submission Deadline 30 April 2024","Author":""}
