{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2024/05/09/math-olympian-in-shadow-of-john-nash-tries-to-solve-blockchain-ai-trust-dilemma/","source":"www.coindesk.com","type":"tech","summary":"Hyperbolic, the two-year-old startup focused on decentralized AI computing, said that it is introducing a protocol called “Proof of Sampling,” aimed at addressing challenges with trust in decentralized AI networks.","title":"Math Olympian in Shadow of John Nash Tries to Solve Blockchain, AI Trust Dilemma","Detailed":"In mathematics, Jasper Zhang figures to be a sort of Zeus. He says he won gold medals at math olympiads in China and Russia, and it took him just two years to get a Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley. Now he\u0027s trying his hand at solving a key problem at the intersection of two of the fastest-growing but most complicated areas – blockchain and AI. Jasper Zhang is a speaker at CoinDesk\u0027s Consensus Festival, May 29-31, in Austin, Texas. Hyperbolic, the two-year-old startup that Zhang leads focused on decentralized AI computing, said Thursday that it is introducing a protocol called “Proof of Sampling (PoSP),” aimed at addressing challenges with trust in decentralized AI networks. Hyperbolic was co-founded in 2022 by Zhang and Yuchen Jin, who holds a Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Washington. The concept for the new protocol was created in conjunction with researchers from Berkeley and Columbia University, according to the team. It combines math, computer science and economics, deploying “advanced sampling methods and game theory to incentivize integrity and minimize computational demands across decentralized networks,” Hyperbolic shared in a press release with CoinDesk. Zhang, 28, said in an interview with CoinDesk that he sees PoSP as the next iteration of verification for decentralized networks. “People in the beginning thought there\u0027s only one way to do verification, which is with consensus,\" Zhang said. \"Later on people discover optimistic proving and then ZK proofs.” Now there\u0027s PoSP, he said, and it can not only be applied to AI, but also to rollups, a type of layer-2 blockchain, as well as so-called actively validated services (AVSs), which are protocols secured by restaking protocols like EigenLayer. A research paper on the Proof of Sampling Protocol by Zhang and several co-authors was submitted on May 1 to arXiv, an open-access repository hosted by Cornell University for scientific papers that have not yet been peer-reviewed. According to the paper, the design relies on a \"pure strategy Nash Equilibrium.\" That refers to a game theory concept attributed to the Princeton University-educated mathematician John Nash, who was the subject of the 2001 Oscar-winning film A Beautiful Mind, directed by Ron Howard and starring Russell Crowe. Here\u0027s a figure from the paper illustrating the architecture: As part of the release, Hyperbolic is introducing “spML,” an implementation of PoSP built specifically for AI verification. \"SpML leverages the foundational principles of PoSP to create a verification mechanism that is not only faster and more secure but also economically feasible,\" Zhang said in the press release. Now they just have to prove it works in practice. Read more: The Enablers of Decentralized AI","CreationDate":"May 9, 2024 at 5:00 p.m. UTC","Author":"Margaux Nijkerk","Category":"Other"}
{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/10/27/google-introduces-cloud-based-blockchain-node-service-for-ethereum/","source":"www.coindesk.com","type":"tech","summary":"The move highlights the growing attention that technology giants are paying to blockchain, crypto and Web3 projects.","title":"Google Introduces Cloud-Based Blockchain Node Service for Ethereum","Detailed":"Tech giant Google said Thursday it will be launching a cloud-based node engine for Ethereum projects. The company said its Google Cloud Blockchain Node Engine will be a “fully managed node-hosting service that can minimize the need for node operations,” meaning that Google will be responsible for monitoring node activity and restarting them during outages. A node is a type of computer that runs a blockchain’s software to validate and store the history of transactions on a blockchain’s network. At the time of launch, Google will be supporting only Ethereum nodes. Read more: Google Partners With Coinbase to Accept Crypto Payments for Cloud Services Google’s announcement signifies the growing attention that technology giants are giving toward blockchain, crypto and Web3 projects. “Blockchain is changing the way the world stores and moves its information,” Google said in its announcement. Earlier this month, Google formed a partnership with crypto exchange Coinbase to provide crypto payments for its cloud services, and in September, Google Cloud and BNB Chain announced a partnership to support the growth of early-stage Web3 startups. In addition, Google announced in January that it was building a Digital Assets Team for Google Cloud, showing its commitment to building Web3 projects. Read more: BNB Chain, Google Cloud Team Up to Advance Growth of Web3 and Blockchain Projects","CreationDate":"Oct 27, 2022 at 5:17 p.m. UTC","Author":"Margaux Nijkerk","Category":"Other"}
{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/11/21/mobile-focused-blockchain-celo-partners-with-ethereum-software-firm-consensys/","source":"www.coindesk.com","type":"tech","summary":"The partnership will allow for Celo to integrate with ConsenSys’ Infura infrastructure.","title":"Mobile-Focused Blockchain Celo Partners With Ethereum Software Firm ConsenSys","Detailed":"Mobile-first blockchain Celo will be working with ConsenSys, an Ethereum software firm that helped engineer the Merge. The agreement will allow Celo to make use of ConsenSys’ Infura infrastructure. Celo developers will be able to build with Infura, which will help make the blockchain more scalable. Developers will also be able to deploy Ethereum-based decentralized applications (dapps) built with Truffle. Truffle is a development environment where Ethereum smart contracts can be tested. “Developers can use Infura’s trusted and complementary tooling to seamlessly communicate with the Celo blockchain for rapid deployment and scaling” said Xochitl Cazador, Celo\u0027s head of ecosystem growth. The integration will also allow for developers to transact between Celo and other DeFi platforms and dapps. In addition, the partnership is intended to kick off Celo’s compatibility with MetaMask, a popular Ethereum-based wallet. Celo will also join the Ethereum Climate Platform that ConsenSys launched last week. Last year, ConsenSys announced that over 350,000 builders were using the Infura Infrastructure. In 2021, Polygon, an Ethereum scaling project, also started supporting Infura tooling. Celo in January introduced cREAL, a stablecoin pegged to Brazil\u0027s local currency, the real. “This partnership supports the Celo ecosystem’s mission by providing reliable, easy-to-use tooling for developers to build and scale their dapps on the Celo blockchain,” Cazador told CoinDesk. “We are one step closer to mainstream adoption of web3 and realizing its full potential to transform lives by regenerating global ecologies and empowering local economies.” Read more: Mobile-First Blockchain Celo Launches Stablecoin Tied to Brazilian Real CORRECTION (Nov. 21, 14:39 UTC): Celo\u0027s cREAL was introduced in January 2022.","CreationDate":"Nov 21, 2022 at 2:00 p.m. UTC","Author":"Margaux Nijkerk","Category":"Other"}
{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2024/04/29/eigenlayer-after-touching-off-restaking-frenzy-plans-own-eigen-token/","source":"www.coindesk.com","type":"tech","summary":"Sreeram Kannan, leader of the project, had previously refused to confirm any plans for an EIGEN token. That hadn\u0027t stopped crypto traders from betting heavily on the likelihood; they poured in more than $15 billion of deposits, aiming to collect incentives for early users.","title":"EigenLayer, After Touching Off Restaking Frenzy, Plans Own EIGEN token","Detailed":"EigenLayer, the restaking protocol that has racked up $15.7 billion in deposits, released a whitepaper Monday confirming plans for an EIGEN token, in what\u0027s likely to be one of the year\u0027s most highly anticipated reward giveaways for users of the Ethereum blockchain ecosystem. According to a blog post written by the Eigen Foundation, the non-profit supporting the protocol, there will be a total supply of about 1.67 billion EIGEN tokens, and 45% of those will go toward the EigenLayer community. The 45% is divided into three subgroups, with stakedrops, future community initiatives and ecosystem development each receiving buckets of 15%. \"The total supply of EIGEN at launch is 1,673,646,668.28466 tokens,\" the foundation revealed. \"This number is the result of encoding the phrase \u0027Open Innovation\u0027 onto a classic telephone keypad.\" EMBED: https://twitter.com/eigenfoundation/status/1785000100315504776 Crypto traders have been speculating for many months that EigenLayer would come out with its own token, and they had piled deposits into the protocol even before it went live a few weeks ago, on bets that they would receive rewards for early users. EigenLayer is at the core of a new trend known as \"restaking,\" where users’ ether (ETH) tokens that are deposited or \"staked\" as security on the Ethereum blockchain can be repurposed to secure additional networks or protocols. The project is led by Sreeram Kannan, who founded it in 2021 when he was an associate professor of electrical and computer engineering at the University of Washington. EigenLayer went live earlier this month, but it is has not yet activated most of the core features that make the project notable – including its reward system and mission-critical \"slashing\" mechanism. In Monday\u0027s post, Eigen Foundation wrote that the first \"season\" of the \"stakedrop,\" as the team described the planned token release, some 5% of the token supply will be distributed to users based on their staking activities on March 15, at Ethereum block No. 19437000. The claim for these EIGEN tokens opens on May 10, and will close after 120 days. According to the foundation, investors will be allocated 29.5% of the token supply, and 25.5% will go towards early contributors. Both groups will have a three-year lock period, “with a full lock in year one, followed by a linear unlock of 4% of their total allocation each month over the next two years.” In addition, at the launch of the EIGEN token, users will be able to secure EigenDA, Eigenlayer’s Actively Validated Service (AVS) for data availability, with their EIGEN tokens. Other AVSs are expected to follow, the foundation wrote. That restaked ETH is used collectively to secure these auxiliary AVS networks on EigenLayer. As part of the EIGEN drop, the protocol is bringing in a new technological design known as \"intersubjective forking,” a feature meant to support “intersubjective faults.” “Intersubjective faults are instances of misbehavior that cannot be objectively identified on-chain, yet any two reasonable observers would agree that a penalty is deserved,” according to the blog post. The system will empower the AVSs to make a \"much wider range of credible commitments than is possible today, significantly expanding the possibilities of what can be built on EigenLayer,\" the foundation said. \"Use cases include transaction ordering, databases, prediction markets, storage services, oracles, artificial intelligence, and more.\" UPDATE (April 29, 19:19 UTC): Adds paragraph about intersubjective forking. Read more: EigenLayer and EigenDA Launch on Ethereum Mainnet","CreationDate":"Apr 29, 2024 at 6:09 p.m. UTC","Author":"Margaux Nijkerk","Category":"Other"}
{"link":"https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2024/05/06/ethereum-developers-target-ease-of-crypto-wallets-with-eip-3074/","source":"www.coindesk.com","type":"tech","summary":"EIP-3074 has drawn both support and concern from the Ethereum community, a code change that is supposed to improve the user experience with wallets on the blockchain.","title":"Ethereum Developers Target Ease of Crypto Wallets With \u0027EIP-3074\u0027","Detailed":"As blockchain teams strive for the holy grail of mainstream adoption, making crypto wallets easier to use is suddenly at the top of the agenda. Ethereum developers have been moving along with their discussions and inclusions of certain Ethereum Improvement Proposals (EIPs) for the blockchain’s next big hard fork, Pectra. One of the proposals that has drawn both support and concern from the Ethereum community is EIP-3074, a code change that is supposed to improve the user experience with wallets on the blockchain. Ethereum developers have tackled issues in the past that would make the user experience with wallets easier, and have deployed features that unlocked newer capabilities. But now, developers are pushing to make the experience even easier, and enshrined in the blockchain. This new change is supposed to allow a specific type of wallet, externally owned accounts (EOAs), to be more programmable, by allowing smart contracts to authorize them. Paradigm Chief Technology Officer Georgios Konstatonopolous said on X that EIP-3074 “is a big deal. Wallet UX will 10x.” Currently on Ethereum, there are two types of wallet accounts: EOAs, which are the most popular, like MetaMask and Coinbase wallet, and smart contract wallets, like Argent and Safe. Users of EOA accounts are given a pair of keys – a public one and private one – while smart contract accounts are wallets that are controlled by code. The problem with EOAs comes down to human error; if you lose a private key to an EOA account, there is no help desk or key recovery process that can help you regain access to your funds. Previous proposals, like ERC-4337, have aimed to make EOAs easier to use, a concept known as account abstraction (AA), which allows users to recover their crypto with smart contract features. EIP-3074 is another step in this type of innovation, delegating transaction capabilities to smart contracts. A key component of the proposal is to allow users to batch transactions together and have them sign off on it once. Other features include having third parties sponsor users\u0027 transaction fees, so decentralized applications (dapps) can for instance cover the gas costs for their users. The proposal, created as far back as October 2020, also allows for users to sign transactions that were submitted by a different party – for example, signing transactions from a different interface, or signing them offline. The authors are Sam Wilson, Ansgar Dietrichs, Matt Garnett and Micah Zoltu, according to the document. The key difference between EIP-3074 and ERC-4337 is that “the former focuses on getting all the benefits of execution abstraction, and the latter focuses on getting all the benefits of account abstraction on all EVM chains but in a non-native way that is less efficient,” Ethereum Foundation developer Yoav Weiss writes. “Both are steps to get some of the benefits of full native account abstraction.” While many in the community showed their support for the proposal, others have cautioned moving forward with this over security concerns with the batched transactions feature. Lukas Schor, the co-founder at Safe that has advocated for ERC-4337 and for Ethereum wallets to implement full account abstraction, voiced concerns that while this proposal does move in the right direction, he fears the EIP lacks “any clear pathway to full AA and has a net-negative impact on AA adoption.” The co-founder of Argent wallet, Itamar Lesuisse, also posted on X that EIP-3074 might be a serious security concern, writing that it allows “a scammer to drain your entire wallet with a single off-chain signature. I expect this will be a major use case.” Mudit Gupta, chief information security officer at Polygon Labs, also had security concerns, calling for wallets to “ban EIP-3074 MAGIC signatures on a per wallet basis.” “For security reasons, I do not want to expose my cold wallets to AA batching,” Gupta added. Read more: Ethereum Upgrade Could Make It Harder to Lose All Your Crypto","CreationDate":"May 7, 2024 at 1:58 a.m. UTC","Author":"Margaux Nijkerk","Category":"Other"}
